# The Principla Path Method

Since 2009, the landscape of digital assets and blockchain technology has rapidly evolved, introducing concepts such as smart contracts, stablecoins, tokens, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and other web3 technologies. These advancements have expanded the definition of assets, markets, and economies. Digital assets are no longer limited to payment tokens or stores of value; they now encompass works of art, virtual real estate, and entertainment assets.

The early issuance of access tokens like MATIC, UNI, and GRT has not only contributed to the development of new economic ecosystems but has also opened up unique opportunities for raising investment capital through crowd sales, initial coin offerings (ICO), and initial exchange offerings (IEO).

However, these new assets pose challenges for financial reporting, both in terms of conceptual aspects such as the classification of virtual real estate and methodological aspects such as auditing and reporting transactions on decentralized exchanges. Many fundamental concepts must be reevaluated, reinterpreted, and expanded to accommodate the realities of digital asset ecosystems.

When measuring assets to be used in exchange at fair value, we must identify the princi- pal market (FASB, 2011; International Accounting Standards Board [IASB], 2011). Only if a principal market cannot be identified, then the most advantageous market should be used. As is the case of cryptocurrencies, assets may be traded in different, active markets at dif- ferent prices. If an entity enters into transactions in multiple markets and can access prices in those markets for the asset at the measurement date, then those markets can be assessed in terms of volume and level of activity.
According to current accounting standards, the principal market is the market with the greatest volume and level of activity for the asset (FASB 2011; IASB 2011). The fair value of the asset would be measured using the price that would be received in that market. The main objective of our model is to dynamically identify the principal market and once that market is obtained, source all price information employed either as a spot or as a bench- mark from that exchange.1
Specifically, ASC 820 (FASB, 2011) indicates that if there is a principal market for the asset or liability, the fair value measurement shall represent the price in that market (whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique), even if the price in a different market is potentially more advantageous at the measurement date. Moreover, to be relevant, the benchmark price should be at least approximately trad- able on an accessible market.